Kabin Wang  
27295936  
ENCS -393: Reflection Essay #1  
As of recent, the rise in popularity of artificial intelligence has sparked transformative 
changes in  many  industries, notably revolutionizing the field of digital art . Consequently, the 
creation of hyper realistic images of people, including celebrities, has become accessible to 
virtually anyone with access to the internet . This has been the cause of much controversy 
recently, specifically in a case involving artificially generated nude images of renowned singer & 
songwriter Taylor Swift  (Ray, 2024) . These images seemingly popped out of nowhere and 
quickly took social media platforms by storm  – being reposted on platforms such as X and  has 
caused the singer -songwriter t o threaten legal action against websites reposting them. Indeed, 
this incident serves as a stark reminder of novel ethical dilemmas our society must wrestle with  
in the age of artificial intelligence. The following essay will argue that using artificial 
intelligence image generating technologies to create compromising or scandalous depictions of 
celebrities is unethical because it undermines the person’s right to privacy and because it 
contributes to the proliferation of misinformation that harms not just t he celebrity in question but 
society at large.  
The first argument against the generation of AI images of celebrities in compromised 
situations hinges on the right to privacy and consent. Indeed, although celebrities are public 
persons, they have a right to retain the legal rights to their digital liken ess and to personal 
privacy . Generating fake images of them and then reposting those images without their consent is 
a direct violation of this right and  should be treated no differently than if a paparazzi illegally 
snapped pictures of them changing in th eir bedroom and proceeded to release those images to the 
public. Furthermore, the argument that digital reproductions are not immune to being deemed 
unethical is echoed by Nick Bostrom drawing on the  principles of “ Non-discrimination with 
regard to substrate ” and “ Non-discrimination with regard to ontogeny ” wherein  all beings, 
regardless of their physical or digital nature, deserve respect and autonomy (Bostrom, n.d.). In 
other words, the notion that notion that digital representations of people can be manipulated 
without ethical considerations does not hold. Moreover, he argues through the principle of the 
“Procreator’s responsibility of provisioning ” that the creators of a digital product have a 
responsibility to ensure that their creations do not harm existing persons (Bostrom, 202 4). 
Naturally, this includes the persons right to privacy and consent. As such, it would be the case 
that person responsible for creating the compromising AI -generated image should be held 
accountable for their actions.  
The second argument against the generation of AI images of celebrities in compromised 
situations focuses on the broader societal ramifications  of circulating such images. Indeed, these 
images can easily be mistaken for being “real” and contribute to the spreading of misinformation  
and deceiving  the public. Nick Bostrom presents a compelling case on this matter, drawing on 
the principle of  “Actual and potential beings ” wherein  he posits that  if the creation of potential 
AI images harms the well -being of actual beings there is a moral reason not to bring these potential -beings into existence  (Bostrom, n.d.). In other words, if  the misinformation of the 
public resulting from the generation of fake AI images can be stopped, then it should.  
Furthermore, the onus of not choosing to stop it ultimately falls on the creator of the image.  
Without intervention , either through new laws or regulations,  it is easy to see how 
misinformation could attack the very fabric of truth and society, culminating to the point where it 
is difficult, if not impossible, to discern between what is real and is fake.  
In summary, t he advent of artificial intelligence has undeniable transformed the digital art 
industry by enabling anyone to create hyper realistic images, even if unauthorized.  Academics 
such as Nick Bostrom have laid much groundwork in regards to how we, as a society, should 
properly tackle these new ethical challenges namely through the principles of “ Non-
discrimination with regard to ontogeny ”, “Procreator’s responsibility of provisioning ” and 
“Actual and potential beings ”  . However, as  we continue navi gating this complex technology 
embedded world , it is important for us to consider what  new regulations need to be put in place 
to properly safeguard society’s  rights to privacy and truthful information.  
Word Count: 698  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Works Cited  
 
Bostrom, N. (n.d.). Ethics of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics. Retrieved from 
https://nickbostrom.com/ethics/aiethics  
 
Ray, S. (2024, January 30). X Unblocks Taylor Swift Searches After Weekend Pause 
Triggered by Spread of Deepfake Nudes. Forbes. Retrieved from 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2024/01/30/x -unblocks -taylor -swift -searches -after-
weekend -pause -trigger ed-by-spread -of-deepfake -nudes/?sh=2c8faf643a10  